# NUSRI-FYP-Backscattering

Final year project "Software Defined Radio Based Back Scattering for Low Power Communication" in NUS Research Institute Suzhou.

The rapid growth of Internet of Things (IoT) devices has resulted in massive amounts of data. It takes more and more energy to transmit these huge volumes of data. Back scattering, as a key low-power technology in communication, can be an effective solution to handle high power consumption. Backscatter communication (BackCom) utilizes altering the load impedance of the antenna to reflect the existing signal so that data can be transmitted. Unlike the traditional communication paradigm, it does not require a self-emitting signal, so it no longer needs a power amplifier, which can greatly reduce power consumption. In this thesis, the principle and characteristics of signal back scattering are analyzed. Aimed at developing a low-power communication system in the context of IoT, a bistatic system utilizing back scattering for temperature monitoring is designed. A custom backscattered device and a signal processing scheme are proposed to realize BackCom. For temperature monitoring in practice, a real-time graphical user interface (GUI) is designed to visualize the information. The reliable communication range of this system can reach 5m over a 1m carrier-tag distance for an 80bps bit rate under the condition of 70Hz and 150Hz frequency shift keying (FSK) frequencies. For 6kHz and 14kHz FSK frequencies, the larger range can be reached, which is 20m.
